hey everybody welcome to the hang up  it's wednesday 7 p.m central uh today is  december 15th 2021 that's when we're  doing this live it's the last show  before i go in for heart surgery and if  you've ever had a bowl of rice krispies  in milk that sound is the sound that my  lungs would make whenever i open my  mouth after i'd done some physical  exertion  and so it would just sound like rice  krispies and i googled it because you  know dr google is the first thing that  i'm gonna do before i actually go talk  to my doctor uh and it turns out that  that's a very common symptom of  congestive heart failure but the next  thing that happened is we decided let's  go for the gold standard let's take me  in and do an angiogram  uh because that way basically they went  in right here through my wrist  and they thread a catheter all the way  up into my heart and pop some dye in  there and take pictures uh and so the  whole process is there i actually have  uh david can put it up on the screen  this is what they drew  after the angiogram was over now they  told me that they would only be able to  put in stents in arteries  if the  occlusion or the  head was 70 or less that's the right  artery of the heart and it's 100 blocked  on the left side  the first branch primary branch right  before that fork is 90 block the other  branch is 85 to 90 blocked up higher and  yeah flipping it isn't gonna make it  easier to read  and then further down there's one that's  like  sixty to seventy percent uh blocked etc  what's going to happen is uh i'm going  to next wednesday instead of doing an  episode of the hangout i'm going to be  going in for a quadruple or twin tuple  bypass cardiac bypass graft surgery i'm  not tied to anybody at all i'm i'm lone  wolf atheist  every single association i've had apart  from um you know with seth and iron i  guess  has has left me uh burned me and matt  dillahunty and his wife gonna fall out  on facebook about  the fact that they were claiming that  prejudice plus power equals racism that  only basically racism only exists uh  systematically or systemically like  so in other words black people can't be  racist what that's mean where wasn't  even her memes she posted it she didn't  even actually give her initial opinion  on it to begin with  um but it was saying look we have these  words bias prejudice i don't think  bigotry was on this one but it's also in  the conversation  and racism  and if  words are you if two words are used as  synonyms if what you mean by racism is  what everybody means by prejudice  then we're kind of wasting you know  we've got two words here to say the same  thing and maybe because there are  complicated issues here  we can start to use one of the words in  a different way so that prejudice and  racism are synonyms prejudice refers to  this particular thing and racism we can  take to apply to systemic racism or  institutionalized racism yeah i think  he's trying to defend his wife and i  don't have any problem with that but at  the same time i think he's incredibly  arrogant i think he thinks his [ __ ]  don't stink and he's a [ __ ] genius  and we're all [ __ ] beneath him like  little peasants i mean i i'm used to  that condescending [ __ ] from atheists  because every every youtube atheist  thinks they're the smartest youtube  atheist i mean  are you right are you included in that  dj  oh there you go yeah see so i mean  that's like that's a common delusion  they're all idiots except me i'm a  genius they should be better than that  and they should really get away from all  this atheism plus  all this third wave feminism um it's it  it doesn't do our community any good  it's driving people away from them they  get so much [ __ ] about it i don't know  why they continue to do this  it's embarrassing as what it is and i  got tired of countless  all right i couldn't post a video post a  video about pascal's wager and  people are saying oh atheism plus or  feminism whatever it had absolutely  nothing to do with it those who don't  know matt's wife she's a huge feminist  rabid feminist one of these third wave  feminists um and a huge social justice  warrior  so she posted a meme that basically the  gist of the meme was that only white  people are capable of being racist  that is this this idea that the looty  left is spreading nowadays that it's not  racism unless it's institutionalized  racism and of course only white people  have power institutions so only white  people are capable of being racist  which is in itself an incredibly [ __ ]  racist idea so me and matt kind of got a  fight about that on facebook he  basically called me a bunch of names he  called me a piece of [ __ ]  said i was too stupid to debate him and  i was like let's do it [ __ ]  let's debate right now but he kind of he  refused to debate  and um  and he went on the drunken peasant show  which was tj's  podcast at the time yeah i guess you  can't run it but  um  and he wouldn't go on the show if i was  allowed on there with  he wouldn't go on  yeah he wouldn't allow me to debate him  so anyway when i went on i acted like an  [ __ ] and i basically told him that i  thought his wife wanted my dick i think  matt might have been a little butt hurt  by that i don't know i don't know why  she stayed there without him i don't  know what the deal was or what um but i  asked her to take a picture so she took  a picture of me i don't know if you  that's my profile picture if you guys  are  on my facebook  um and so then i left the first thing i  said to do when i left is  i think matt dillahunty's wife wants my  dick  because i did that's what i thought and  i don't even talk like that that's the  thing like i don't even [ __ ] talk  i've never said that about a woman in my  life  oh you know i'm not that kind of guy but  i was just getting a [ __ ] jerk this  is how i felt i think that maybe they're  swingers  and maybe she was gonna proposition me  to have a three-way with them or  something  and so  he like walked off so it'd be less  awkward like that's what i think  happened i don't [ __ ] know but that's  what i think probably happened but he  goes on he goes on his facebook and says  matt bill honey's wife is a con and she  did all this stuff to me  so  um  and then he comes on our show and  basically  lays out the narrative of she's in love  with him  um  or has a crush on him whatever she wants  she wants the d  from him and that's why she's acting  like this um  and you're a [ __ ] and  uh  you know all you know he's talking [ __ ]  it seems like uh it seems like some of  these guys could do better i'm sorry i  mean uh  matt dillahunty i'm like dude you're  famous step it up  yeah i mean like you're you're the  headline speaker dude do you really have  to be with this psycho  right up to the trophy wife dude you  made it  every single association i've had apart  from um you know with seth and aaron i  guess  has has left me uh burned i have 7 000  plus unread emails right now and  countless people trying to you know get  me to do a debate or whatever else i've  got to make draw lines and say okay this  or is or isn't worth my time what it is  is they have these atheist conventions  and for the first time unlike high  school guys like matt dillahunty and him  at meta get to be the cool kids  um and they hate what they  they do that's true i've been to these  conventions and you you can watch these  guys they think they're just the coolest  [ __ ] and they form these little clicks  together  and uh and so they all they spread this  social justice warrior [ __ ] they  hate on all of us and like to think  they're superior to us and they try to  act like bullies by attacking us they do  not like me they do not like you they do  not like jacqueline that's exactly the  reason him at metta has attacked me on  his blog that's the exact reason he's  attacked jacqueline it's because they  don't like any of us  they're these [ __ ] snobs that think  they're above us and they're not you're  not [ __ ] above us i'm sorry we we put  asses in seats better than you do and i  know that [ __ ] pisses you off but  it's the true just deal with it when  they go to these atheist conventions  they're very cliquish and for some  reason at these atheists intervention  these uh these extreme feminist social  justice warriors have taken over like  him at meta and and matt de la honey and  if you i won't name the other ones but  there's a few of them that form these  clicks i think they just saw feed off  each other  you said that your views on animal  morality are speciesist so  with that did you mean  that it is okay to  kill animals and let's say in the  context like needlessly when you don't  need to so if you're at a grocery store  if you have access to a grocery store  and you can either choose to eat a fully  vegan diet or if you choose to eat an  omnivorous diet it's okay to needlessly  kill an animal uh for food just because  it's a different species than you is  that what you meant by  speciesist yeah so this is the thing  what i mean about people arguing  dishonestly  because when you say is it okay to  needlessly kill an animal you are  injecting all sorts of context into this  my position is really simple  i am not convinced that eating meat is  immoral  okay well there needs to be a context i  mean if you needed to eat meat to  survive like if you were an indigenous  person and you lived in a tribe um i'd  say it is morally acceptable to eat meat  because you need to survive but okay  you're obviously not in that position  you have access to a grocery store you  don't need to kill animals to live and  be healthy  okay so you're basically making so  you're basically claiming that it's okay  to needlessly kill animals  because they're not a part of our social  contract and it doesn't affect us no  see this is this is what i talk about  when you guys are so repeatedly  dishonest  i did not say i'm not dishonest yes  yes you are richard and i'm going to  prove it to you and everybody else again  right now because i already called you  out for this same thing a few minutes  ago i at no point  said that it was okay to needlessly kill  animals you cannot take shut up shut up  you cannot take my position and respin  it and paint it with your poisonous  fallacious framing  the problem here is that you are  assuming that i am making a case for  something being morally permissible  when i am saying that i have not been  convinced that something should be  morally impermissible  there are moral obligations and there  are moral virtues  and i am happy to acknowledge that  someone who never kills an animal and  lives their life that way may be more  morally virtuous than me  matter of fact i'll say it now  i think they are  that is not the same as a demonstration  that there is a moral obligation to not  kill animals for food  and when i talk about where i draw lines  and why it has to do with rights  the ability to understand rights and the  social contract we make and where we  extend it to you're basing your moral  outlook on two on two things on what  social contract and reciprocation of  rights no no i'm not i'm basing my moral  outlook on well-being i'm basing my  moral position well-being period period  and when i talk about where i draw lines  and why it has to do with rights the  ability to understand rights and the  social contract we make and where we  extend it to  not once did dilla hunty mention social  contract or anything that resembles  social contract theory it has to do with  rights the ability to understand rights  and the social contract we make and  where we extend it to not once did dilla  hunty mention social contract or  anything that resembles social contract  theory  well-being period period okay well do  you think it's i'm basing what rights  are given based on  the the the things that you just  mentioned including reciprocation but  not the individual ability for an  individual to reciprocate but the  categorical potential for reciprocation  within a group  okay well matt you if your moral like if  the basis for morality is well-being  then you should be in favor of veganism  because  it's not within the best interest like  animals to kill and eat them  okay so the issue here is uh rights  whether or not we should extend no  no the issue here is whether or not  there's a moral obligation  there is uh rights whether or not we  should extend no the issue here is  whether or not there's a moral  obligation  to not kill and eat animals not whether  or not it might be morally virtuous  okay  uh so  why do you believe it's not a moral  obligation because nobody from your side  has made an argument that it should be a  moral obligation  the default the default  is freedom  until there's a good reason to limit  that freedom the default is maximal  right freedom to needlessly kill animals  what sorry  you want you think it's an infringing on  your freedom to needlessly kill animals  that can think and feel  just like you  bye  wow  okay  [Music]  the other day i blocked someone on  twitter  and they were very very upset and  suggested that me blocking them on  twitter was somehow me silencing them  but when i block someone on twitter  that's for me i'm the only one who no  longer sees their content i block people  for the sake of my own sanity my own  health and while i'm going through  things where the doctors are saying  try to make sure your pulse doesn't get  above 120 and if you're feeling faint or  whatever take a break  um it becomes more necessary to block  some people well i'm getting ready to go  have well maybe not the best christmas  ever although i am supposedly getting  almost a new heart out of this christmas  even though that wasn't necessarily my  plan and i'm going to do everything in  my power to recover and get back so that  when we get into 2022  i can not only help guide people to the  events that we're going to be doing at  various conventions and everything else  but provide content that you guys  benefit from  [Music]  matt dillahunty saying quote i don't  make arguments against veganism ellipsis  ever  ellipsis but i'm starting to think that  eating meat is required for clarity of  thought  oh matt old boy oh matt you're 50 years  old and you don't really know where milk  comes from oh matt we just saw you doing  a two and a half hour debate that was  ever so erudite and one-sided in which  you ultimately couldn't do anything with  pleading ignorance oh oh matt you old  rib tiggler you matt you dirt ignorant  texan ex-military know nothing no talent  bomb  why why is matt doing taken seriously  why he became a radio personality in  texas on texas community radio on the  basis of nothing he became known and to  some extent respected for on the one  hand you know  being an agony aunt that's an  old-fashioned slang term listening to  people and their problems over the radio  which is you know people called in and  said boy i'm really upset because i've  quit the church and now my whole family  hates me doing that kind of sympathetic  uh reception call and then on the other  hand he really he just bullied people on  the phone it was really i mean there's  there's no reason to respect this guy  intellectually there never has been i i  don't make arguments against veganism  ever  matt delante continues and you've still  failed to accurately represent my  position  have some bacon and try again oh  oh matt oh matt you slay me you slay me  with your refined debate stylings and  sensibility could this be the same matt  dillahunty who took on the erudite  richard i think high school dropout  vegan gains and managed to lose and then  lie about it on the internet later in  his latest interview with cosmic science  oh well yeah you know  vegan gains he had some really bad  arguments and in fact he even agreed  with me yeah right matt that's how that  conversation went jesus christ  anyway to wrap this up matt delahunty's  quote continues  yet more confusion and assertions when  the reality is that i'm correctly  applying the burden of proof  which if you could meet it  oh  another little witticism if you could  meet the burden of proof  m-e-a-t  question mark  oh matt delonte oh  if you could meet that burden of proof  you wouldn't keep me to tweeting  against straw men  adios and then oh oh here's the big  conclusion moral obligation versus moral  virtue learn that first so look  it's possible for me to imagine a  conversation  in which matt dillahunty was really  using this distinction of moral  obligation versus moral virtue to solve  a problem that's what philosophy is  supposed to be all about  and he's not i mean this is a totally  snide  and insincere you know dismissal  of of the problem now also the concept  of burden of proof sometimes burden  proof can be very important  scientifically philosophically even  legally  this this is a joke this is again this  is just totally insincere um  you know dismissal of veganism basically  and again we've just seen recently how  totally incapable is of taking on taking  on those kinds of questions those those  kinds of problems if you've been  watching this channel for a long long  time i actually discussed the ethics of  the fact we had a leader in the vegan  movement we had a guy here on youtube  who photographed himself wearing a nazi  t-shirt  and i point out look you know  what we're really judging here is not  that the t-shirt does any harm because a  lot of people use kind of phony  utilitarian ethics here the t-shirt did  not kill millions of people  buying the t-shirt doesn't give money to  adolf hitler the nazi party  he actually in that case made the  t-shirt himself  why is it so immoral  why is it ethically such a big deal that  he wears this t-shirt and improves the  shirt it's because the judgment we're  making is on you it's on the kind of  person  you are  and who you aspire to be the the  judgment here about matt de la hunty is  about what kind of man are you you know  that's ultimately what this is if you go  around wearing a t-shirt that says i  don't care about greenhouse gas  emissions  pork and bacon or something if you wear  a t-shirt that says  chicken wings for life or whatever i  don't care about heart attacks you just  want to eat beef  you don't care about animal rights you  just want to eat deep fried chicken  that tells me a lot about you matt it  tells me a lot about your morality  and the way you so cynically invoke you  know moral obligation versus moral  virtue which again from what i've seen  i i i don't okay  if this were you know a legitimate area  of philosophical inquiry if this is a  philosophy that really meant something  what problem does it solve  what is the research question  that is addressed by this  now really really briefly i have been in  several debates about the existence of  objective morality  with people who are sincerely interested  in talking about it and one of the  things i point out in those debates this  isn't the end of the discussion i say  look  suppose you have two people and one  believes the value of art is completely  subjective it can never be  you know fully specified iterated or it  can never be made objective that  ultimately beauty is in the eye of the  beholder whether or not something is a  great painting depends on different  kinds of cultural and interpersonal and  maybe even economic and aesthetic  considerations that ultimately are  utterly subjective they're no more real  than a dream people decide the mona lisa  is a great painting and it's a great  painting because a bunch of people feel  that way and that's about it um and  people can change their minds a work of  art a film a movie is considered the  greatest film of its era and 10 years  later doesn't seem so great anymore that  that that's it there's nothing objective  and then suppose someone else enters  that that debate that discourses says no  they feel really strongly that there is  an objective an objective set of  criteria that define some films as  objectively good films and some as  objectively bad some paintings as  objectively that there is some  spectrum  of objectively real criteria that can  establish whether art is good or bad  even if that were conceded  unless their position is that all  art  can be objectively  evaluated this way  then the argument is ultimately  ridiculous and spurious and immaterial  because look  if you take a great painting you take  the mona lisa and you light it on fire  and then you you display the burned  ruins the burn remains the mona lisa can  you make an argument that objectively  it's not a great painting anymore like  it's not visible anymore it's been  charred and and you know it's it's been  damaged beyond recognition  oh okay so gee we seem to be dealing  with an objectively real criterion of  something being a good painting like you  can see it you know like oh okay a great  work of architecture still has to be  standing and not destroyed an earthquake  a great film you know yeah we're  watching game of thrones recently and  the lighting is so bad you know okay so  maybe their objective criteria for  lighting and color balance you know  something like this  once you're into objective criteria  you're never going to be talking about  the range of things that we're really  debating that really matter in real life  and art so really really briefly if you  have a bunch of applicants for a  scholarship let's keep it on the same  topic you have a bunch of aspiring young  painters who send in their best works of  art send in their drawings and their  paintings and say hey i want a  scholarship to go to  arts college i want an opportunity to  study at some some art academy  you are not going to be debating if you  are on the committee who chooses the  winners and losers choose who gets the  scholarship and who does not  you are not going to be debating  objectively great art  and objectively terrible art something  objectively good and bad art  if any of the applicants  are so terrible that there's no debate  about that it's in that realm  then those are not going to be what your  attention is any of them are so  wonderful it's like oh wow this kid is  amazingly fantastic then they're in the  pile of people who are definitely  getting the the scholarship  all of your time and energy is going to  be on the cases that are near the border  line near the cut-off where it's like  well look we only have 50 scholarships  we can give 50 students a chance this  education so you're probably not even  going to discuss  the best 40 and you're not going to  discuss the worst 200 however many you  got okay they're going to be just a  couple of cases near the cut-off line  and all of the time and effort of the  committee is going to be directed  towards that so this brings us back to a  case like cuba a case like iran okay  cuba is not nancy germany  it's not there aren't gas chambers there  isn't a holocaust going on there that's  so unbelievably awful that it justifies  invading cuba and shutting down the gas  chambers if it were  it wouldn't be difficult to talk about  right  human rights problems in iran they're  bad  not remotely as bad as nazi germany it  doesn't cross any of the thresholds  where you can say okay look they're  digging mass graves this is a situation  so extreme that we have to have war and  intervention okay  the other examples are used prostitution  the view of the left wing and the right  wing and the center on prostitution it's  a problem the corrupting influence of  prostitution in society whether it's you  know my ex-girlfriend going to her high  school and they're being recruiters  there or actually i've heard that a lot  about japan too they're being kind of  recruiters on the streets of tokyo okay  you know there are there are these you  know troubling questions  about prostitution  but this is not in the realm  of some kind of objectively real  humanitarian disaster where we then  don't have to have the conversation uh  okay  drinking water is poisoning people and  they're dropping dead in the thousands  no debate it's an objectively real  problem for government policy  government's going to intervene guess  what even if it's counter to your  constitution if you happen to be living  in a country where like let's say that  it said in the constitution the federal  government will have nothing to do with  drinking water that remains the  municipal government's promise just for  the city government doesn't matter  they'll send in the fbi or the cia or  the send in the national guard they'll  send in the army they'll do oh wow  people are dropping dead because there's  a drinking water problem we're into the  realm of objectively real problems so  again oh at what point is it a moral  obligation as opposed to a moral virtue  to have government intervention now  policy universe should have these guns  political mentions it's irrelevant  those are never going to be the cases  we're paying attention to we're always  going to be looking at questions of  virtue and we're going to be looking at  the most dubitable the most doubtful the  most you know  the the the gray areas that are the  hardest to deal with right i mean i  don't i don't see anyone really sitting  around wanting to morally ponder whether  or not you should have an intervention  when it's an absolute clear-cut case of  mass poisoning mass murder or something  you know okay these are these are areas  where we need you know government  intervention as as soon as well even an  earthquake that's the earthquake that  destroyed haiti i forget how many years  ago now okay we need we need some some  kind of intervention okay you know what  i've been to downtown los angeles i've  been to the bit of the beach where was  it venice beach los angeles  i could take some photographs of venice  beach in los angeles where the  humanitarian disaster looks worse than  some parts of haiti after the earthquake  you know you got people  you know sleeping on the street sleeping  in tents  you got you've got a kind of slow motion  humanitarian disaster in venice beach in  los angeles right  we're never going to be discussing or  debating the the the situations of moral  obligation all of these debates are  going to be the area of moral virtue and  they're going to be in the most gray the  most indecisive the most difficult areas  of martial arts okay look guys i'll wrap  it up for this video there um  matt dillahunty  always was an idiot his whole line of  approach  on objective morality and moral  obligation is not a philosophy i would  go so far to say that this is an  anti-philosophy  because it's doing the exact opposite of  what a philosophy ought to do  philosophies are about problem solving  methods they are not about  obfuscation  and all he's doing with his quote  unquote philosophy  is obfuscating and evading the point  when he is presented with a genuine  philosophical problem and compared to  the future of iran the future of cuba  the future of venice beach los angeles  or the future of prostitution  veganism veganism has got to be one of  the easiest moral quandaries to think  your way out someone who dodged the call  from vegan gains again and again and  again until he was you know vegans was  trying to set up an appointment someone  who's dodged you spent your whole life  dodging these questions  that that's what you are man  matt de la hunty you are a moral and  intellectual coward and yet you've made  a career out of grandstanding on what  you yourself say is one of the simplest  issues in the world to grandstand on you  think you're a genius because you  figured out that when you pray to god  nobody is listening well clap clap clap  you caught up with something most of us  knew at 12 years old  and that doesn't put you in any position  of moral leadership it doesn't make you  an intellectual it doesn't make you a  philosopher it makes you a pathetic  self-important dried-up texan military  man and i know we all know but after he  did the the radio show he used to post  where they would go to go to dinner  after the radio show he said oh  supporters of the show can come and eat  here you can see the [ __ ] menu and  matt if you got to age 50 and you never  really sat down and wonder oh where does  cheese come from  you're still catching up with a whole  lot of stuff that we knew at about age  12  and um  ultimately the purpose of philosophy is  not just to understand the world  it's to change it i don't know how  you've managed to go so far as a public  intellectual while having absolutely no  positive vision of the future of the  world being a better place and of what  you've got to do the sacrifices you've  got to make the kind of commitment and  hard work you'd have to do  to accomplish it it's just it's just too  much to ask for matt dillahunty to stop  eating bacon to stop eating cheese  matt  when you read the history books  who who do you look up to i've never  heard him talk i've never really heard  him talk about books he read in that way  he really seems to be kind of illiterate  troglodyte to be quite honest with you  but like you know  if if you  who who are the who are the heroes now  for people and secularism i mean is it  you know is it galileo standing up and  diana you know for what he believes in  from is it socrates you know socrates  who ultimately was put to death for what  he believed in you know whose shoes  would you walk a mile in matt i mean is  it is it somebody like martin luther  king whose life again died with a bullet  to the head but who before that went  through you know matt  if you believe in this cause  this be knighted cause you've you've  chosen for yourself i think it's time  for you to stand up and start being a  little bit more of a heroic figure if  not at age 50  you know  you know when is it going to be  [Music]  there there's a there's a contingent of  the ethical vegan community  much like a contingent in the atheist  community just have really bad arguments  and i'm i'm undeniably speciesist about  this i drink milk  uh i've eaten cows too but  the thing is even even if you know like  you've got probably from the same count  it's it's entirely possible so you've  got vegans and then you've got  vegetarians and  lactose  i drink milk  and  for a while i was convinced that well  this is not this is a non-issue  clearly not even in the same ballpark as  whether or not i would kill a  cow  and then someone raised the the issue of  okay  you've got a situation where a cow has  given birth and its calf is taken away  so that it will keep producing milk yeah  after forcible insemination  and  have you considered the impact the  emotional impact of a cow of having you  know its offspring removed from it and  then  you know continuing to get milk  and the answer at that time was no i  hadn't considered that at all  and my answer now is  i don't know that we can actually assess  the psychological trauma of a cow  i don't know necessarily how we would go  about it  because what i see people doing is  saying oh an animal  looks up with you with those eyes or  tries to run away so clearly it's  expressing its desire to not be  and quite frankly  i don't think that  most animals  can process that on a cognitive level to  where they're expressing no don't eat  meat having lived and grown up on a farm  and been around cows and milk cows  granted i'm not remotely an animal  psychologist  i don't see any of the presentations  that we would say  yes this cow is suffering  psychologically  in in the same way that a human  yes  i'm not i am opposed to factory farms  that engage in cruelty but i've also  lived and grown up on farms and  which by the way i do play right that  means you're against factory farms yes  but i don't think you need you say  you're against factory farmers well  you're kind of overly cool to animal  that just means you're against factory  cars  no gotta do it like i'm  what we are talking about is a situation  in which  the the single biggest thing that you  can do to  tackle climate change the single biggest  thing you can do  to  minimize unnecessary suffering without  actually having to  to suffer in a meaningful sense yourself  is as simple  as just choosing something else on the  menu  that's the situation we're in and to me  it's very difficult to see  how if we're making a distinction  between moral obligation and virtue that  mean that that is meaningful in any way  how that could possibly not fall within  the category of obligation i don't  remotely disagree the thing is do you  think it does fall within the category  of obligation well  you  not necessarily  somebody  can give me the information and data and  make that argument because right now no  offense to you i'm i'm happy to accept  that you know far more about this than i  do and that your information is likely  to be correct  um  but quite frankly this is  this is easily  the longest conversation i've ever had  about this particular subject  and  i i can't just  as much as i like you i couldn't  possibly just take you at your word so  this is just an issue of ignorance on my  part  is there a way for me to eat meat  where i don't have any of the immoral  problem  one of the things to consider is  what's the impact on humans  [Music]  if i stop eating meat  [Music]  i mean so for instance uh eating the  agricultural industry farmers ranchers  truckers  all of them lose business it's also that  contributes to the greater good of  humans  but do you think what do you think  contributes more to the greater good of  humans  making sure those people keep their jobs  or  combating climate change  all right  now now we've now jumped into another  route the reason i ask is because the  agricultural industry is the single  biggest  uh contributor to climate change yes far  more than travel and things like that  all put together we always have in front  of these guys 300 gallons of water  across the way we keep almost 400  gallons and we do so down the other farm  we have a truck that's dedicated solely  with a tank on it  filling it with water and that's part of  our daily routine there's about 319  million people living in the u.s and the  average american eats about 71 pounds of  red meat and 54 pounds of poultry per  year multiply that by america's  population and it will total 22.65  billion pounds of red meat and 17.23  billion pounds of poultry  meat production requires more water than  fruits vegetables for grains per pound  for example one pound of beef requires  1800 gallons of water while one pound of  wheat requires about 200 gallons of  water  those animals aren't going to go away  when we stop eating them  well you know yes they are i mean once  the demand so there are currently  unthinkable uh numbers of animals that  are specifically being bred to be  tortured and slaughtered if the demand  goes down then they simply just won't be  born anymore and so the animals aren't  going to go extinct so maybe the better  solution is to do like a thanos snap and  eliminate half the human beings  if you just kill half of the people on  the planet that's not good for human  well-being see and i'm not convinced we  have an overpopulation crisis okay but  even if we don't like right you could  say that one way to combat climate  change would be to cut the population  half well sure another way to combat  climate change driving cars would be to  stop driving cars but an even better way  than both those things probably put  together is to stop eating meat  and in fact i think the single  biggest thing that you can do as an  individual to combat your personal uh  like ecological footprint is to stop  eating meat raising livestock takes up a  huge amount of water because we need to  produce massive amounts of feed  producing feed for animals not only take  up a lot of water to produce but it  takes up land that can be used to grow  crops for humans  cattle raised for me consume equals to  the caloric need of 8.7 billion people  more than the current population of 7  billion and if that's the case  then not only do we now have a situation  where  there is there is the whole the whole  argument of the ethical worth of animals  and that's one thing  you've now got this entirely separate  argument about the environmentalism and  how that's going to affect you  and future generations  so so one of the things and this is not  so first of all having  addressed  been presented with this before  uh  i'm not even disagreeing with you  on  the impact changes  uh but the truth of the matter is  [Music]  this is  i think my objection here isn't even one  it's not a matter of practicality okay  because we know  the overwhelming majority of people  aren't going to take this step  and so an individual taking this step  isn't going to contribute yeah but you  can say the same thing about voting but  you can say the same thing about voting  but you can say the same thing about  voting  i would probably be a moral more moral  person  and probably to be doing more for the  world  if i just stopped  [Music]  never remotely denied that  the thing is  the  factors  that would keep me eating meat under  some circumstance not all  have so far  outweighed the factors that would make  me stop and what are those factors if  you had to will  yeah whittling them down is kind of  difficult  raising animals for food also produce  massive amounts of waste approximately  130 times more than the entire human  population  farms which raise animals are also  responsible for polluting our waterways  with animal waste pesticides chemicals  fertilizers hormones and antibiotics  this is more than all other industrial  sources combined so the climate change  argument by the way  is  the strongest one  of all of them for me personally  when other people presented this about  you know the impact of this i'm like  yeah that's an issue and  if if that's the case and i have  accurate information  then yep on board but that's  a separate issue from the moral the  types of moral arguments that i'm often  presented with which is you know oh  don't kill the poor animals is there a  way for me to eat meat  where i don't have any of the immoral  problem like people would just think  that you just don't care enough about  animals and they could be right  [Music]  maybe we can we can practice